RailRoad 
http://railroad.rubyforge.org/
------------------------------

RailRoad generates models and controllers diagrams in DOT language for a 
Rails application.


USAGE:

Run RailRoad on the Rails application's root directory. You can redirect its
output to a .dot file or pipe it to the dot or neato utilities to produce a
graphic. Model diagrams are intended to be processed using dot and
controller diagrams are best processed using neato.

    railroad [options] [command]
 
Options:

    -a, --all
      Include all models (not ActiveRecord::Base derived)
    -b, --brief
      Generate compact diagram (no attributes nor methods)
    -c, --compact
      Concentrate edges
    -i, --inherit
      Include inheritance relations
    -l, --label
      Add a label with diagram information (type, date, version)
    -m, --modules
      Include modules
    -h, --help
      Display this help message and exit
    -v, --version
      Display version information and exit

Commands:

    -M
      Generate models diagram
    -C
      Generate controllers diagram

Examples:

    railroad -M > models.dot
      Produces a models diagram to the file 'models.dot'
    railroad -a -i -M > full_models.dot
      Models diagram with all classes showing inheritance relations
    railroad -M | dot -Tsvg > models.svg
      Model diagram in SVG format
    railroad -C | neato -Tpng > controllers.png
      Controller diagram in PNG format
    railroad -h
      Shows usage help


PROCESSING DOT FILES:

To produce a PNG image from model diagram generated by RailRoad you can
issue the following command:

    dot -Tpng models.dot > models.png

If you want to do the same with a controller diagram, use neato instead of
dot:

    neato -Tpng controllers.dot > controllers.png

If you want to produce SVG (vectorial, scalable, editable) files, you can do
the following:

    dot -Tsvg models.dot > models.svg
    neato -Tsvg controllers.dot > controllers.svg

Important: There is a bug in Graphviz tools when generating SVG files that
cause a text overflow. You can solve this problem editing (with a text
editor, not a graphical SVG editor) the file and replacing around line 12
"font-size:14.00;" by "font-size:11.00;".

Note: For viewing and editing SVG there is an excellent opensource tool
called Inkscape (similar to Adobe Illustrator. For DOT processing you can
also use Omnigraffle (on Mac OS X).


REQUIREMENTS

RailRoad has been tested with Ruby 1.8.5 and Rails 1.1.6 to 1.2.3
applications. There is no additional requirements (nevertheless, all your
Rails application requirements must be installed).

In order to view/export the DOT diagrams, you'll need the processing tools
from Graphviz.
